Add python exporters doc (#1261)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io: content/en/docs/instrumentation/python/exporters.md

---

> title: "Exporters"

Reviewer: Nit: no need for quotes here

weight: 4
---

> In order to visualize and analyze your traces and metrics, you will need to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to visualize and analyze your telemetry you will need to
```

Author: Good catch, this was initially because I was going to include the prometheus exporter, but I decided not to keep it and missed this bit.

> export them to a backend.

Reviewer 2: It's a bit confusing to be told to send data to a backend and then start with the console exporter

Author: Removed the backend bit from the intro sentence. Since this follows other articles, we could change it to move the console exporter but that'd likely be a more uniform change across all languages.

## Console exporter

The console exporter is useful for development and debugging tasks, and is the
simplest to set up.

```python
from opentelemetry import trace
from opentelemetry.sdk.trace import TracerProvider
from opentelemetry.sdk.trace.export import BatchSpanProcessor, ConsoleSpanExporter
from opentelemetry.sdk.resources import SERVICE_NAME, Resource

# Service name is required for most backends
resource = Resource(attributes={
    "service.name": "your-service-name"
})

provider = TracerProvider(resource=resource)
processor = BatchSpanProcessor(ConsoleSpanExporter())
provider.add_span_processor(processor)
trace.set_tracer_provider(provider)

# Merrily go about tracing!
```

## OTLP endpoint or Collector

> To send data to an OTLP endpoint or the OpenTelemetry Collector, you'll want to

Reviewer 3: Add a link to the collector: https://opentelemetry.io/docs/collector/getting-started/

Collector](/docs/collector/getting-started/), you'll want to configure an OTLP
exporter that sends to your endpoint.

First, install an OTLP exporter:

```shell

> $ pip install opentelemetry-exporter-otlp-proto-http

Reviewer: Just a clarification here regarding command code blocks. There are two choices:

- Either the language is set to `shell` and no prompt is used, or
- The language is set to `console` and prompt(s) are used.

The latter has the advantage of formatting commands and their output differently.

Author: Yep, about to do that - I realized I should have just written `console`. Early morning funsies 🙂

Then you can use it when you initialize tracing:

```python
from opentelemetry import trace
from opentelemetry.exporter.otlp.proto.http.trace_exporter import OTLPSpanExporter
from opentelemetry.sdk.resources import SERVICE_NAME, Resource
from opentelemetry.sdk.trace import TracerProvider
from opentelemetry.sdk.trace.export import BatchSpanProcessor

# Service name is required for most backends
resource = Resource(attributes={
    SERVICE_NAME: "your-service-name"
})

provider = TracerProvider(resource=resource)
processor = BatchSpanProcessor(OTLPSpanExporter(endpoint="your-endpoint-here"))
provider.add_span_processor(processor)
trace.set_tracer_provider(provider)

> 

Reviewer: Drop the second blank line

# Merrily go about tracing!
```

### Using gRPC

If you'd prefer to use gRPC, you can install the package:

```
pip install opentelemetry-exporter-otlp-proto-grpc
```

And replace the `OTLPSpanExporter` import declaration with the following:

```python
from opentelemetry.exporter.otlp.proto.http.trace_exporter import OTLPSpanExporter
```

## Jaeger

If you are using [Jaeger](https://www.jaegertracing.io/) to visualize trace
data, you'll need to set it up first. This is how to run it in a docker
container:

> ```shell

Reviewer 3: Just as a note for a follow up issue: this same code block is used at multiple places, would be great to externalise it with something like the `code_block_from` macro
